CONTAINERS_README.md, before:

# Running Net Organizer in a container

### 1. Installation

Ensure the environment variable $NETORG_HOME is set. This is where the configuration file and the devices.yml will be stored.

Ensure Docker is installed.

You will also need to ensure the directory where Net Organizer resides is in the $PATH.

### 2. Build the Docker image

Ensure you are in the directory where Net Organizer resides and build as follows:

```text
$ docker build -t netorganizer .
```

### 3. Run as a container

The command cnetorg is to be used instead of netorg to run it in a container. Simply run as follows to test:

```text
$ cnetorg
usage: netorg.py [-h] [-c | -g | -s | -o | -d | -p]

Organize your network.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -c, --configure       [Re-]Configure Netorg
  -g, --generate        Generate/update a devices.yml
  -s, --scan            Scan to see what's active, known, reserved
  -o, --organize        Organize the network
  -d, --devicetable     Export the device table
  -p, --pushchangestosna
                        Push grouping changes to Secure Network Analytics
```

Commit message:

Separate configuration out use CNETORG_CONFIG_HOME

CONTAINERS_README.md, after:

# Running Net Organizer in a container

### 1. Installation

Ensure the environment variable $CNETORG_CONFIG_HOME is set. This is where the configuration file and the devices.yml will be stored. When you run the container, the path inside the container /home/netorg will be mapped to this directory.

Ensure Docker is installed.

You will also need to ensure the directory where Net Organizer resides is in the $PATH.

### 2. Build the Docker image

Ensure you are in the directory where Net Organizer resides and build as follows:

```text
$ docker build -t netorganizer .
```

### 3. Run as a container

The command cnetorg is to be used instead of netorg to run it in a container. Simply run as follows to test:

```text
$ cnetorg
usage: netorg.py [-h] [-c | -g | -s | -o | -d | -p]

Organize your network.

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -c, --configure       [Re-]Configure Netorg
  -g, --generate        Generate/update a devices.yml
  -s, --scan            Scan to see what's active, known, reserved
  -o, --organize        Organize the network
  -d, --devicetable     Export the device table
  -p, --pushchangestosna
                        Push grouping changes to Secure Network Analytics
```
